[Studios] Doc style and structure improvements (#847)
seqeralabs/docs: platform-cloud/docs/studios/add-studio.md

:::note
- If you're not able to see the Studios tab, contact your Platform adminstrator.
- Review the user roles documentation for details about role permissions.
- The following functionality is available to users with the **Maintain** role and above.
:::

Users with the **Maintain** role and above can add Studios via the **Studios** tab in your workspace. Select **Add Studio** to get started.

## Compute and Data

- **Resource labels**: Any [resource label](../labels/overview) already defined for the compute environment is added by default. adfdAdditional custom resource labels can be added or removed as needed.
- **CPUs allocated**: The default allocation is 2 CPUs.
- **GPUs allocated**: Available only if the selected compute environment has GPU support enabled. For more information about GPUs on AWS, see [Amazon ECS task definitions for GPU workloads][aws-gpu]. The default allocation is 0 GPUs.
- **Maximum memory allocated**: The default allocation is 8192 MiB of memory.
   
### Mount data

Select **Mount data**, and then from the **Mount data** modal, select data to mount. Select **Mount data** to confirm your selection.

> Datasets are mounted using the [Fusion file system](https://docs.seqera.io/fusion) and are available at `/workspace/data/<dataset>`. Mounted data doesn't need to match the compute environment or region of the cloud provider of the Studio. However, this might cause increased costs or errors.

Reviewer: Datasets !== Data repositories

> By default, sessions only have read permissions to mounted data paths. Write permissions can be added for specific cloud storage buckets during the compute environment configuration by defining additional **Allowed S3 Buckets**. This means that data can be written from the session back to the cloud storage path(s) mounted. If a new file is uploaded to the cloud storage bucket path while a session is running, the file may not be available to the session immediately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, sessions only have read permissions to mounted data paths. 

:::info
Write permissions can be added for specific AWS S3 buckets in the compute environment configuration by defining additional **Allowed S3 Buckets** during creation. This means that data can be written from the session back to the cloud storage path(s) mounted. If a new file is uploaded to the cloud storage bucket path while a session is running, the file may not be available to the session immediately.
:::
```

**Collaboration**: By default, all Studios are collaborative. This means all workspace users with the launch role and above can connect to the session. You can toggle **Private** on which means that only the workspace user who created the Studio can connect to it. When **Private** is on, workspace administrators can still start, stop, and delete sessions but cannot connect to them.

**Session lifespan**: Depending on your workspace settings, you may be able to choose between the following options.
**Stop the session automatically after a predefined period of time.**
If there is an existing defined session lifespan workspace setting, you won't be able to edit this. If no workspace setting is defined, you can edit this field. The minimum value is 1 hour and the maximum is 120 hours. The default value is 8 hours. If you change the default value, the change applies only to that session. Once you've stopped the session, the value returns to default.
**Keep the session running until it's manually stopped or encounters an error which ends the session.**

#### Environment variables

> For the selected compute environment, all existing environment variable key-value pairs are displayed and automatically inherited by the studio session. Additional per-session environment variables can be defined for the Studio.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the selected compute environment, all existing environment variable key-value pairs are automatically inherited and displayed for the studio session. Additional per-session environment variables can be defined for the Studio.
```

     
Session-level environment variables take precedence. You can overwrite an existing compute environment-defined environment variable key-value pair by defining the same key and a different value.

### Custom container template image (BYOC)

Customize the following fields:
 **Container template**: Select **Prebuilt container image** from the list. For information about providing your own template, see [Custom container template image][custom-image].

>  If you select the **Prebuilt container image** template, you cannot select **Install Conda packages** as these options are mutually exclusive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 If you select the **Prebuilt container image** template, you cannot select **Install Conda packages** as these options are currently mutually exclusive.
```

---
title: "Add a Studio"
description: "Add a Studio in Platform."
date created: "2025-09-04"
last updated: "2025-10-21"
tags: [data, session, studios]
---

Select the **Studios** tab, and then select **Add Studio**.

:::info[**Prerequisites**]
You will need the following to get started:

- Valid credentials for accessing cloud storage resources
- **Maintain** role permissions (minimum)
- A compute environment with sufficient resources (scale based on data volume):
    - **CPUs**: 2 (minimum)
    - **Memory**: 8192 MB  (minimum)
- [Data Explorer](../data/data-explorer) enabled
:::

:::tip[**Access and permissions**]
If you're unable to see the Studios tab, contact your Platform administrator.

> :::

Reviewer: Is this still relevant? With the switch to Usage-based Pricing, isn't Studios now turned on for everyone?

## Compute and Data

Configure the following resource settings:

- **Resource labels**: Any [resource label](../labels/overview) already defined for the compute environment is added by default. adfdAdditional custom resource labels can be added or removed as needed.
- **CPUs allocated**: The default allocation is 2 CPUs.
- **GPUs allocated**: Available only if the selected compute environment has GPU support enabled. For more information about GPUs on AWS, see [Amazon ECS task definitions for GPU workloads][aws-gpu]. The default allocation is 0 GPUs.

> - **Maximum memory allocated**: The default allocation is 8192 MiB.

Reviewer: Only relevant for AWS Batch CEs

---
title: "Add a Studio"
description: "Add a Studio in Platform."
date created: "2025-09-04"
last updated: "2025-09-04"
tags: [data, session, studios]
---

Select the **Studios** tab in Platform to add a new Studio.

:::note
- If you're not able to see the Studios tab, contact your Platform adminstrator.
- Review the user roles documentation for details about role permissions.
- The following functionality is available to users with the **Maintain** role and above.
:::

Users with the **Maintain** role and above can add Studios via the **Studios** tab in your workspace. Select **Add Studio** to get started.

## Compute and Data

> - **Resource labels**: Any [resource label](../labels/overview) already defined for the compute environment is added by default. adfdAdditional custom resource labels can be added or removed as needed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Resource labels**: Any [resource label](../labels/overview) already defined for the compute environment is added by default. Additional custom resource labels can be added or removed as needed.
```

:::info[**Access and permissions**]
- If you're not able to see the Studios tab, contact your Platform adminstrator.
- Review the user roles documentation for details about role permissions.
- The following functionality is available to users with the **Maintain** role and above.

> :::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:::tip[**Access and permissions**]
If you're unable to see the Studios tab, contact your Platform administrator.
:::
```
Looking at the preview, two admonitions like this are a lot. Thinking about it again, a lot of this information is implied by "**Maintain** role permissions (minimum)" and might be redundant.

By default, sessions only have read permissions to mounted data paths. 

:::info
Write permissions can be added for specific AWS S3 buckets in the compute environment configuration by defining additional **Allowed S3 Buckets** during creation. This means that data can be written from the session back to the cloud storage path(s) mounted. If a new file is uploaded to the cloud storage bucket path while a session is running, the file may not be available to the session immediately.
:::

## General config

### Seqera-managed container template images

You can customize the following fields:
- **Container template**: Select a template from the dropdown list.
- **Studio name**
- Optional: **Description**

Select **Install Conda packages** to define or upload a list of Conda packages to include with the Studio. For more information on the syntax for specifying Conda packages, see [Conda package syntax][conda-syntax].

> **Collaboration**: By default, all Studios are collaborative. This means all workspace users with the launch role and above can connect to the session. You can toggle **Private** on which means that only the workspace user who created the Studio can connect to it. When **Private** is on, workspace administrators can still start, stop, and delete sessions but cannot connect to them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Collaboration**: By default, all Studios are collaborative. This means all workspace users with the launch role and above can connect to the session. You can toggle **Private** on to restrict connections to the user who created the Studio. When **Private** is on, workspace administrators can still start, stop, and delete sessions, but cannot connect to them.
```

**Session lifespan**: Depending on your workspace settings, you may be able to choose between the following options:

- **Stop the session automatically after a predefined period of time:** If there is an existing defined session lifespan workspace setting, you won't be able to edit this. If no workspace setting is defined, you can edit this field. The minimum value is 1 hour and the maximum is 120 hours. The default value is 8 hours. If you change the default value, the change applies only to that session. Once you've stopped the session, the value returns to default.

> - **Keep the session running:** The session will stay active (and consuming compute resources) until it's manually stopped or encounters an error which ends the session.**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Keep the session running:** The session will stay active (and consuming compute resources) until it's manually stopped or encounters an error which ends the session.
```

---

> title: "Add a Studio"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: "Create a Studio"
```
I found this page really hard to follow. Looking at the whole PR, I think it's due to the explanation and guide material ending up on the same page. 

I've made numerous small edits, some are editorial, while others are more about reshaping the page into a guide supplemented with explanations.

description: "Add a Studio in Platform."
date created: "2025-09-04"
last updated: "2025-09-04"
tags: [data, session, studios]
---

Select the **Studios** tab, and then select **Add Studio**.

:::info[**Prerequisites**]

> Before you get started, you need:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You will need the following to get started:
```

- Valid credentials to access your cloud storage data resources.
- At least the **Maintain** role set of permissions.
- A compute environment with sufficient resources. This is highly dependent on the volume of data you wish to process, but at least 2 CPUs allocated with 8192 MB of memory is recommended.
- [Data Explorer](../data/data-explorer) enabled.
:::

:::note
- If you're not able to see the Studios tab, contact your Platform adminstrator.
- Review the user roles documentation for details about role permissions.
- The following functionality is available to users with the **Maintain** role and above.

> :::

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
TODO: Write intro

:::info[**Prerequisites**]
You will need the following to get started:

- Valid credentials to access your cloud storage data resources.
- At least the **Maintain** role set of permissions.
- A compute environment with sufficient resources. This is highly dependent on the volume of data you wish to process, but at least 2 CPUs allocated with 8192 MB of memory is recommended.
- [Data Explorer](../data/data-explorer) enabled.
:::

## Add a Studio

Select the **Studios** tab, and then select **Add Studio**.

:::note
If you're unable to see the Studios tab, contact your Seqera Platform administrator.
:::
````
I think a brief introduction, along with the prerequisites, would help frame the page. I didn't write the intro, but a small section outlining what to expect on the page would be enough.

> ## Compute and Data

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Compute and data
```

- **Resource labels**: Any [resource label](../labels/overview) already defined for the compute environment is added by default. adfdAdditional custom resource labels can be added or removed as needed.
- **CPUs allocated**: The default allocation is 2 CPUs.
- **GPUs allocated**: Available only if the selected compute environment has GPU support enabled. For more information about GPUs on AWS, see [Amazon ECS task definitions for GPU workloads][aws-gpu]. The default allocation is 0 GPUs.

> - **Maximum memory allocated**: The default allocation is 8192 MiB of memory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Studios are allocated with the following resources by default:

- **CPUs**: 2
- **GPUs**: 0
- **Maximum memory**: 8192 MiB

:::note
GPUs are available only if the selected compute environment has GPU support enabled. For more information about GPUs on AWS, see [Amazon ECS task definitions for GPU workloads][aws-gpu].
:::
```

Reviewer 2: I would also add a small section here about modifying resources.

> - **Maximum memory allocated**: The default allocation is 8192 MiB of memory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Configure the following resource settings for your session:

- **Resource labels**: Defines [resource labels](../labels/overview) for the session. Labels defined for the compute environment are added by default. Additional custom labels can be added or removed.
- **CPUs allocated**: Sets the number of CPUs to allocate (default: `2`).
- **GPUs allocated**: Sets the number of GPUs to allocate (only available if GPU support is enabled for the compute environment; default: `0`). For more information about GPUs on AWS, see [Amazon ECS task definitions for GPU workloads][aws-gpu].
- **Maximum memory allocated**: Sets the maximum memory allocation (default: 8192 MiB).
```

> ### Mount data

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Mount data
```

Select **Mount data**, and then from the **Mount data** modal, select data to mount. Select **Mount data** to confirm your selection.

Data repositories are mounted using the [Fusion file system](https://docs.seqera.io/fusion) and are available at `/workspace/data/<data_repository>`. Mounted data doesn't need to match the compute environment or region of the cloud provider of the Studio. However, this might cause increased costs or errors.

By default, sessions only have read permissions to mounted data paths. 

:::info
Write permissions can be added for specific AWS S3 buckets in the compute environment configuration by defining additional **Allowed S3 Buckets** during creation. This means that data can be written from the session back to the cloud storage path(s) mounted. If a new file is uploaded to the cloud storage bucket path while a session is running, the file may not be available to the session immediately.
:::

## General config

### Seqera-managed container template images

You can customize the following fields:
- **Container template**: Select a template from the dropdown list.
- **Studio name**
- Optional: **Description**

> Select **Install Conda packages** to define or upload a list of Conda packages to include with the Studio. For more information on the syntax for specifying Conda packages, see [Conda package syntax][conda-syntax].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use a Seqera-managed container template image:

1. Select XXX
1. Customize the following fields:
  1. **Container template**: Select a template from the dropdown list.
  1. **Studio name**: Specify your Studio name.
  1. **Description** (Optional): Describe your Studio.
1. (Optional) Select **Install Conda packages** to define or upload a list of Conda packages to include with the Studio. For more information on the syntax for specifying Conda packages, see [Conda package syntax][conda-syntax].
```
This is more of a series of steps? Note that step 1 still needs work.

**Collaboration**: By default, all Studios are collaborative. This means all workspace users with the launch role and above can connect to the session. You can toggle **Private** on which means that only the workspace user who created the Studio can connect to it. When **Private** is on, workspace administrators can still start, stop, and delete sessions but cannot connect to them.

**Session lifespan**: Depending on your workspace settings, you may be able to choose between the following options:

- **Stop the session automatically after a predefined period of time:** If there is an existing defined session lifespan workspace setting, you won't be able to edit this. If no workspace setting is defined, you can edit this field. The minimum value is 1 hour and the maximum is 120 hours. The default value is 8 hours. If you change the default value, the change applies only to that session. Once you've stopped the session, the value returns to default.

> - **Keep the session running:** The session will stay active (and consuming compute resources) until it's manually stopped or encounters an error which ends the session.**

Reviewer 2: I haven't checked, but It would make sense for the order of these to follow the page.

- name
- description
- template
- conda
- collaboration
- session lifespan
- environment variable (see comment below)

#### Environment variables

For the selected compute environment, all existing environment variable key-value pairs are automatically inherited and displayed for the studio session. Additional per-session environment variables can be defined for the Studio.
     

> Session-level environment variables take precedence. You can overwrite an existing compute environment-defined environment variable key-value pair by defining the same key and a different value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the selected compute environment, all existing environment variable key-value pairs are automatically inherited and displayed for the studio session. Additional per-session environment variables can be defined for the Studio. Session-level environment variables take precedence.

To overwrite an existing compute environment-defined environment variable key-value pair, define the existing key and a new value.
```

### Custom container template image (BYOC)

Customize the following fields:
 **Container template**: Select **Prebuilt container image** from the list. For information about providing your own template, see [Custom container template image][custom-image].
 If you select the **Prebuilt container image** template, you cannot select **Install Conda packages** as these options are currently mutually exclusive.
 - **Studio name**

> - Optional: **Description**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
I felt like this would be better added into the main flow above as a choice you can make.
